kieyrah — Today at 12:13 PM
Learn Decision Making in Civ Combat

The decisions you make in Civ Combat can turn the tides of entire wars. The sections below will entail some key decisions/actions you can take in conflict to gain the upper hand on your opponents.
https://discord.gg/a9bsBavVk4

Just like the basics of combat, decision making can be best learned through knowing concepts & actually having “live” practice. NeoPVP is a simulation server where you can run “bunkies” games, where you separate into defenders and attackers and attempt to pearl the other side, and break their bunker. This is one of the best resources you can ever have as an aspiring pvphead. Nothing will ever replace live practice.
kieyrah — Today at 12:35 PM
Civ Combat Decision Making Example #1: Abusing your tempo
One of the best thing you can do during a fight is force your opponent to panic. This can be done by either chaining kb2 hits to prevent them from trading on you, critting, or literally just sticking on them well. A good example of this is the video below.

https://youtu.be/ZSQfO2B_uSg?si=DPGOpgRVTOlhGiiD

(thanks to HG80 for telegraphing his moves!)

Here, when we are trading hits in the beginning of the video, i’m actually losing as he’s clicking faster/has better aim than me. Despite this, he turns around to mess around in his inventory @ around 24 seconds, letting me get in his face. This is his first vital mistake, as he opts to refill his bar despite the fight just only starting. This can happen for a few reasons, and probably just occurred due to nerves.

I don’t have enough tempo to pressure him yet, so I poke gently by strafing in and out of hit range using my KB sword. He backs off eventually as i’m actually trading well. The video cuts to the true turning point in the fight, as he jumps across the canal after taking good trades to attempt to kb me into the water for an easy kill. Unfortunately, even if he does do this, my ender pearl is off cooldown, and this practice server has no block placing, so it’s something i don’t mind using. He ends up not ever hitting me back, and panics as such. I now have the upper hand, not even taking into regard our pot differences. I swap back to KB, push him into the wall as he attempts to create distance and pearl away, telegraphed to me by him looking up at the sky. I stay on his face, not worrying about potting and start to spam crit to abuse his panic and increase my dps. Another part that’s hard to see, i press space under the tree to speed up slightly, allowing another hit. Throwing the pearl, I eat to gain regen and we duke it out in a cubby. I’m almost at full HP despite never potting, showing how decision making and abusing tempo can completely change
YouTube
kieyrah
Vivi | HG80
Image
kieyrah — Today at 12:59 PM
Civ Combat Decision Making Example #2: Kiting fast, and kiting well
You won’t win every fight, and sometimes you stay far too long at them. It happens, but you need to know how to kite properly to avoid being punished for it.

Funnily enough, kiting can be brought down to stuff that can be out of your control. Things like natural terrain generation, caves, even lakes in the way inbetween you and your safe haven usually aren’t something you can control. Every time you leave your town to go do something involving combat, you should atleast have a roughly planned route in your head on how to get back. 

Timing pearls is incredibly important to kiting. Usually, everyone carries one stack, some of which might be used in battle. Ender pearls are one of the most valuable items in your kit, so they need to be used wisely. Usually they are best thrown over obstacles, forcing your opponent to also use one or risk falling behind. If possible, try to look for where it’s landing using the 3rd person camera & either place blocks inbetween you and that pearl OR attempt to knock them backwards into whatever obstacle(s) you pearled over.

If you know you’re going to have to kite, you should exchange one of your speed two potions for a speed one splash pot that has the 8 minute duration. You will use your speed twos during the fight, and kiting, and when your enemies run out of speed you will still have the 8 minute pot on you.

https://youtu.be/oIgTFEjA6zo?si=d2Z5X7Q2T_zNFfRs

A pretty interesting example of atleast the use of pearls is this video by Plumdys. (thank you for doing this insane kite) He wisely uses his full inventory of pots when he has to, tanking hits from 5-6 players at a time by simply timing his pots correctly. When some chasing members pearl infront of them, he abuses the waste of their CD and gets even further ahead, eventually making just that difference whenever he falls into terrain/gets caught out infront of the vault.
YouTube
Plumdys
La Grand Plum chase
Image
(Note that the player is a few blocks per second faster when holding W and a pivot key such as A or D. Speed 2 you should not jump with, speed 1 you should.)
